    The film opens with quick shots of Erwin Schrödinger and Niels Bohr. Auguste Piccard of the University of Brussels follows. And then the camera refocuses on Schrödinger and Bohr. Erwin Schrödinger and Niels Bohr followed by Piccard. Schrödinger who developed wave mechanics never agreed with Bohr in quantum mechanics, nor with Werner Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. Solvay gave Heisenberg an opportunity to discuss his new theory. Here is French physicist Léon Brillouin, Hendrik Kramers, Bohr's former assistant, and Paul Dirac talking with Max Born, who's statistical interpretation of the wave function ended determinism in the atomic world. These men, Bohr, Heisenberg, Kramers, Dirac and Born, together with Wolfgang Pauli, represent the founding fathers of quantum mechanics. On the other hand is Louis de Broglie, who wrote his dissertation on the wave nature of matter, which Schrödinger used as the basis for wave mechanics. The owner of the camera, Irving Langmuir is seen chatting briefly with Bohr. At Solvay Bohr refined his thoughts on complementarity and sparred with Einstein over the implications. Here he is with Paul Ehrenfest. Kramers' work in Copenhagen on dispersion theory was essential to the development of quantum mechanics. Langmuir, an American chemist at the GE lab in Schenectady, hence the camera, had recently broken his leg, appears to explain to Ehrenfest how he gets around.
    By 1927, Dirac, in the middle, had independently developed quantum mechanics and made other significant contributions as had Wolfgang Pauli, who formulated the exclusion principle.
    A lively Madame Curie, Born and Pauli working out a problem. Note the changed demeanor as the participants exit from the meeting, except for the smiling William Lawrence Bragg and Peter Debye. Arthur Holly Compton, Owen Richardson, Max Born, Madame Curie, Hendrik Kramers, H.A. Lorentz, Paul Langevin, Albert Einstein, whose famous response to Born and the statistical interpretation of the wave function was, God does not play dice. Bohr, Planck, Pauli, and Belgian soldiers. A portentous conclusion.

    短片开始于埃尔温·薛定谔和尼尔斯·玻尔的快照。布鲁塞尔大学的奥居斯特·皮卡尔紧随其后。然后摄像机的焦点转向薛定谔和玻尔。埃尔温·薛定谔和尼尔斯·玻尔后面跟着皮卡尔。薛定谔发展了波动力学从来没有在量子力学中同意过玻尔，也没有同意过维尔纳·海森堡的不确定性原理。索尔维给了海森堡一个机会来讨论他的新理论。这是法国物理学家莱昂·布里渊，亨德里克·克雷默——玻尔的前助手，保罗·狄拉克正在与马克斯·玻恩交谈，马克斯·波恩的波动方程的统计解释终结了原子世界的决定论。这些男人，玻尔、海森堡、克雷默、狄拉克和波恩，还有沃尔夫冈·泡利，代表了量子力学的创始人。另外这位是路易·德布罗意，他写了关于事物波动本质的学位论文，这篇论文被薛定谔当作波动力学的基础。摄像机的主人，欧文·朗缪尔看起来在和玻尔进行简单的交谈。在索尔维会议上，玻尔改进了他在互补原理上的想法并且和爱因斯坦在其含义上进行了争论。这里他和保罗·埃伦费斯特在一起。克雷默在哥本哈根的关于色散理论的工作对量子力学的发展是必要的。朗缪尔，一个来自美国斯克内克塔迪通用电气实验室的化学家，因而他拥有一部摄像机，最近摔伤了他的腿，好像在和埃伦费斯特解释他如何处理这件事。
    直到1927年，中间位置的狄拉克已经独立发展了量子力学并且做出了其他重要的贡献，同时，沃尔夫冈·泡利也是这样，他提出了不相容原理。
    一个活泼的玛丽·居里。波恩和泡利解决了一个问题。注意到与会者离开时的变化了的表情(暗示他们变得严肃起来)，除了面带微笑的威廉·劳伦斯·布拉格和彼得·德拜。阿瑟·霍利·康普顿、欧文·理查森、马克斯·玻恩、玛丽·居里、亨德里克·克雷默、亨德里克·安东·洛伦兹、保罗·朗之万、阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦，他对波恩和波动方程的统计解释的著名回应是上帝不玩骰子。玻尔、普朗克、泡利和比利时的战士们。一个有预兆的结论。
